# DashboardNPS
Dashbord analysing the link between customer satisfaction and turnover in R shiny

A copy of this dashboard has also been carried out with Tableau software.


## Context
The objective of this dashboard is to study the correlation between the satisfaction of a restaurant's customers and the turnover they generate. Customer satisfaction is studied through the variable of the NPS (Net Promoter Score), calculated as follows: NPS = % promoter customers - % detractors customers
A promoter client is a client who has given a recommendation rating of 9 or 10, while a detractor client has given a recommendation rating of 6 or less. Customers are divided into three research batches, and responded to five different types of questionnaires.

This dashboard brings together different graphs to visualise the link between customer satisfaction and turnover.

All data used in this dashboard was randomly generated and does not represent any particular restaurant.

## Dashboard description
The dashboard is divided into two tabs. The first, the home tab, provides a general overview of the correlation between NPS and CA, while the second details this correlation for each study batch. (see pictures of the general overview)

On this tab, there is:
-	boxes representing the turnover generated by the customers who answered the satisfaction survey in the month of their response, and the NPS of the three batches for the last month of the study
-	a graph superposing the NPS and the turnover for the three batches over time
-	a bar graph of the NPS for each batch over a selected study period, detailed by product
-	a graph representing the adjusted R2 for the linear regression models of each batch
-	a bar graph showing the percentage of detractors, neutrals and promoters for each batch, detailed by product. On the bars, it is possible to display the average amount spent per month by customers, the average customer basket, or their average frequency of purchase per month.
-	a histogram representing the average turnover per month of the customers who put each satisfaction rating. The bars also show the number of customers who gave each satisfaction rating.
-	a histogram representing the average turnover per month of customers who have given each recommendation note. The bars also show the number of customers who gave each recommendation score.

On the second tab (see photos of the details per survey), there is:
-	a drop-down menu to choose the batch to be studied
-	a slider to choose the period of time to be studied
-	boxes representing the number of clients studied for the chosen lot and period of time, the turnover generated by these clients, the NPS of these clients, the percentages of promoter, neutral and detractor clients, as well as the impact on turnover (in €/client) of a one-point increase in the NPS
-	half a pie chart representing the percentages of promoter, neutral and detractor clients
-	a graph showing the evolution of the percentages of promoter, neutral and detractor clients over time
-	a graph representing the linear model established between the CA and the NPS for the previous 26 weeks, as well as the points used to calculate the linear regression. This graph is accompanied by a table of regression coefficients and an explanatory text.
-	a graph superposing the NPS and the CA for the chosen batch over time
-	a histogram representing the average turnover per month of the customers who gave each satisfaction rating. The bars also show the number of customers who gave each satisfaction rating.
-	a histogram representing the average turnover per month of customers who have given each recommendation note. The bars also show the number of customers who gave each recommendation score.


## Miscellaneous remarks
1.	The turnover used in the graphs is always the average turnover per customer per month. This makes it possible to compare the turnover generated by the study's customers over several months or for several batches, without the number of responses affecting the comparisons.
2.	The model used to study the correlation between NPS and turnover is a linear model. Other Lasso, Ridge or ElasticNet regression models were tested, but the results were similar. I therefore chose to use the simplest model.
3.	The data can be stored on Google Cloud Storage. You then connect using a Json authentication key.
